{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 UPI fraud is a type of cybercrime where a person is tricked into sending money or sharing bank details through online payment apps like Google Pay, PhonePe, or Paytm. It usually happens when fraudsters pretend to be a trusted person or company.\
This fraud generally happens step-by-step. First, the scammer contacts the victim through a call, message, or social media. They may say that you have won a prize, received a refund, or need to verify your account. Then they send a fake payment link or QR code and ask the person to scan it. Many people think they are receiving money, but actually they are approving a payment. Sometimes, they also ask for OTP or UPI PIN, which should never be shared.\
Anyone who uses online payment apps can be targeted, especially students, elderly people, or those who are not aware of such scams. People who trust messages easily are more at risk.\
The effects of UPI fraud can be serious. The victim may lose money instantly, and it is often difficult to recover it. It also creates stress and fear of using online payments again. Therefore, people should always stay alert and never share their personal banking details with anyone.\
}